What's New in SwiftWasm #2 (#1)
swiftwasm/blog.swiftwasm.org: Content/posts/update-02-october-2020.md

---
date: 2020-10-14 14:34
description: An update on what happened in the SwiftWasm ecosystem during the first half of October 2020.
---
# What's new in SwiftWasm #2

Welcome to the second SwiftWasm update! To make the updates flow steady, we're trying to publish
them fortnightly now. Let us know what you think of this new cadence. And here's a gentle reminder
that this blog is fully open-source, so if you spot a typo, an error, a broken link, or have any
other feedback, please feel free to file it [in our `blog.swiftwasm.org` GitHub
repository](https://github.com/swiftwasm/blog.swiftwasm.org).

## SwiftWasm Team Updates

We would like to welcome [@yonihemi](https://github.com/yonihemi) to the SwiftWasm team who joined
us in the beginning of October. After the previous contributions he made to

> [`carton`][https://carton.dev] it made perfect sense to expand our team. As always, we invite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`carton`](https://carton.dev) it made perfect sense to expand our team. As always, we invite
```

be built for macOS or Linux. And while the WebAssembly DOM renderer in Tokamak is the most useful
module right now, this prevented us from working static HTML rendering in Tokamak on macOS and
Linux.

Another issue we had with JavaScriptKit is [the naming of `JSValueConstructible` and
`JSValueConvertible`](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/issues/87) protocols. These
protocols are used for conversions between `JSValue` references and arbitrary Swift values. In
practice it wasn't always clear which of these protocols was responsible for a specific conversion.
After some deliberation, these were renamed to `ConstructibleFromJSValue` and `ConvertibleToJSValue`
respectively in [#88](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/pull/88).

[An issue was raised](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/issues/97) by
[@yonihemi](https://github.com/yonihemi) this week on our JavaScriptKit repository about `i64`
Wasm function return type support in Safari. The reason for it is that [Safari is the only major
browser](https://webassembly.org/roadmap/) that doesn't support
[Wasm `i64` to `BigInt` conversion](https://github.com/WebAssembly/JS-BigInt-integration).

> Unfortunately, there is a plenty of APIs that do require this conversion to work, and it's unclear

Reviewer 2: Possibly change to
```suggestion
Unfortunately, there is a plethora of APIs that require this conversion to work, and it's unclear
```
or
```suggestion
Unfortunately, there are (plenty | lots | many) of APIs that require this conversion to work, and it's unclear
```

Reviewer: I agree with @carson-katri about “many:”

```suggestion
Unfortunately, there are many APIs that require this conversion to work, and it's unclear
```

yet if this can be polyfilled on the JavaScript side at all. Currently it looks like we need to
apply some transformations to binaries produced by SwiftWasm to resolve this issue, but it remains
to be seen how well that would work in practice.

## Tokamak

Tokamak didn't see major updates recently, but we've received some important bug reports during

> the last few weeks. Firstly, there's [an edge case with the `Picker`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the last few weeks. Firstly, there's [an edge case with `Picker`
views
```

## JavaScriptKit

[JavaScriptKit](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit) had a few important updates in October
so far. Most importantly, now that [#91](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/pull/91) by
[@kateinoigakukun](https://github.com/kateinoigakukun) was merged, JavaScriptKit no longer uses
unsafe flags in its `Package.swift`. The use of unsafe flags was a big problem for us, as it breaks
dependency resolution due to strict checks that SwiftPM applies. If any package in your dependency
tree contains unsafe flags, you can no longer depend on its semantic version, or a semantic version
of any other package that depends on it.

So far we were able to work around that with a hardcoded check for JavaScriptKit in our fork of
SwiftPM. This was obviously a very ugly hack, but the biggest downside of that approach was that
you couldn't depend on any package that had a semantic version dependency on JavaScriptKit in
upstream Swift toolchains. That meant that libraries like [Tokamak](https://tokamak.dev) could not
be built for macOS or Linux. And while the WebAssembly DOM renderer in Tokamak is the most useful

> module right now, this prevented us from working static HTML rendering in Tokamak on macOS and

Reviewer 3: `prevented us from working` ? Not sure I follow the actual meaning.

Author: Well spotted! Updated to "this prevented static HTML rendering from working on macOS and
Linux".

practice it wasn't always clear which of these protocols was responsible for a specific conversion.
After some deliberation, these were renamed to `ConstructibleFromJSValue` and `ConvertibleToJSValue`
respectively in [#88](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/pull/88).

[An issue was raised](https://github.com/swiftwasm/JavaScriptKit/issues/97) by
[@yonihemi](https://github.com/yonihemi) this week on our JavaScriptKit repository about `i64`
Wasm function return type support in Safari. The reason for it is that [Safari is the only major
browser](https://webassembly.org/roadmap/) that doesn't support
[Wasm `i64` to `BigInt` conversion](https://github.com/WebAssembly/JS-BigInt-integration).
Unfortunately, there are many APIs that require this conversion to work, and it's unclear
yet if this can be polyfilled on the JavaScript side at all. Currently it looks like we need to
apply some transformations to binaries produced by SwiftWasm to resolve this issue, but it remains
to be seen how well that would work in practice.

## Tokamak

Tokamak didn't see major updates recently, but we've received some important bug reports during

> the last few weeks. Firstly, there's [an edge case with `Picker`
> views
> view](https://github.com/TokamakUI/Tokamak/issues/285) that use `\.self` as an identifier keypath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the last few weeks. Firstly, there's [an edge case with `Picker`
views](https://github.com/TokamakUI/Tokamak/issues/285) that use `\.self` as an identifier keypath.
```
